In this video,  I'm going to introduce Solidity,  the programming language for writing a smart contract on the Ethereum blockchain.  After we finish this section,  you'll be able to write and understand a smart contract like this.  The syntax of Solidity is very close to JavaScript,  so if you know a bit of JavaScript,  it will look a bit familiar.  However,  there are some important differences. First,  Solidity is a statically typed language.  That means that you need to declare the type of all your variables.

 Then Solidity is a compiled language.  That means that after you write the code,  you cannot run it right away, but you have to go through a phase of compilation that will transform your high-level code into low-level instruction that the Ethereum virtual machine will be able to understand.  That's different from JavaScript,  where you write the code and boom,  you can run it right away. Another difference is that Solidity is much more limited than JavaScript.  For example,  if you want to do some simple string manipulation in Solidity,

that's not so easy.  So in general,  we try to keep it simple in a Solidity smart contract.  It's never going to be a program with 20-30,000 lines of code like you can have with JavaScript,  but in general,  smart contracts are just a few hundreds of lines of code,  really some time at most,  a thousand,  but really no more. And the last difference is that Solidity can only run on the blockchain,  whereas with JavaScript,  you can run in a browser or server side with Node.js or even in other environments.

 Solidity is not the only programming language for writing smart contracts on Ethereum.  For example,  you have other programming languages like Viper,  but by far Solidity is the most popular,  and it's also the one that is best supported by other blockchain development tools like the Truffle framework. So in order to be a blockchain developer,  you need to master Solidity.  All right,  let's start the coding.