
[lesson27.mp4](file:///D:%5CDevelopment%5CEat%20The%20Blocks%20-%20BlockChain%20Course%5CEatTheBlocks%20-%206%20Figures%20Blockchain%20Developer%5Clesson27.mp4)


In this video I'm gonna teach you what are the control structures in solidity. If you're familiar with languages such as JavaScript or Python, you might already know a lot of control structures such as Eve four and Wild Loop. And in solidity we have exactly the same because this is a language very inspired by JavaScript. So we're gonna create a function and we are gonna start by if so function fu. And this is an external function, okay ? So in this full function, and let's say that we want to test that a certain amount of ether was sent to the smart contract. 

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;  

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

  
contract MyContract {
	bool boolValue;
	bool isOk;
    function foo() external {
	  if(msg.sender >= 100 && block.timestamp > 14578.. || more conditions){
	  // some code 
	  }
	  and
  if(!boolValue){
    // some code
    }

for(uint i=0;i<10;i++){
	// code
}

while(true){ // infinite loop


}
while(isOk == false){

break;
continue;
}
```


So if you watch my previous video, then you know what is MSG sender. So that's the amount of ether that was sent in the transaction. So exactly like in JavaScript we can write an if and then between parenthesis then we write the condition. 

So MSG sender and to do a reason we're gonna use the double equal sign. So for example, if you wanna test that, I don't know, 100 way where sent to the contract is how we're gonna do it. By the way, you notice that we do not use three equal sign like we would do in JavaScript for a strict compar reason in solidity there is no such thing as a strict comparison. So we're just gonna use two equal sign. We can also test if MSG standard is superior to 100 way if it's inferior, inferior or equal. Same for superior or equal. And we can also add some other condition to our if for example, for end. So we use the double and percent for example, we want that block times stamp be superior to a certain value, blah blah blah blah, blah. And we can continue to add more condition and if we don't want to end but we want it all, then we can use the double pipe operator. 

So solidity is going to evaluate that this whole thing evaluate to true, but we can also test for the country with the exclamation points. For example, if not bullying value for example. So here we would declare a bullion value, bull value, yeah, that's how we would test it. So once we've declared our test in the if then we open curly braces and inside we write code that will be run only if this test pass and we could also add another branch to our if statement with else. So if this condition here doesn't pass, then this will not be executed and instead what is inside here will be executed. Okay ? So that see it for the if control structure. So now we are going to see another one which is the follow loop. So the follow loop allow you to iterate over a collection of values such as an array. 

By the way, in the next video I'm gonna tell you about rate. So the way a fall loop works, so you declare a fall loop with the four keyword, then you open two parenthesis and then you open cly braces and it's going to run the code inside the curly braces a certain amount of time. First you need to set up your fall loop. So the first thing you need to do is to initialize a counter. So you're gonna declare an integer. For example, you're gonna call it I you don't have to call it I, but that's very usual to call out counter eye. So you initialize it at zero, then you add a semicolon and then you specify the stopping condition. The the loop is going to run until this condition is not true. So if you wanna run from zero to nine, so that's 10 times, then the end, the stopping condition is I strictly inferior to 10. 

And for every pass of the loop then we want to increment I by one. So we do this by specifying I plus plus inside your follow-up. You do whatever you want. So in general, inside your follow-up, you will want to access the value of I. So the first time I is going to equal to zero, the second time I is going to equal to one, et cetera, et cetera. Up to nine. Alright, so that's it for the full loop. And the last control structure I wanna show you is the wild loop. So the wild loop is similar to four in that it allow you to go through a collection of data or you can run a computation a certain amount of time. The difference between well A and a full loop is that with the, well, you might not know in advance how many time you need to run the computation because in a wild loop, so first you declare a wild loop like this, then you open parenthesis and kill braceis. 

And between parenthesis you specify a condition that must be tested every time you run the code inside the Y loop. So for example, if you specify while true, this is an infinite loop, so that means the code inside is going to run forever. By the way, this is not possible to do this in solidity. So instead of the true you are going to test for some condition and this testing condition must be true for the well to continue. So we can create a bull value called I don't know is okay for example, and is okay is initialized to true. So while is okay then run a certain computation and probably at some point you're gonna test for 

Something and you're gonna change the value of your is okay variable to false. So is okay equal false. So what's gonna happen is your wild loop is gonna run and as long as is okay is true. But when this if condition is gonna be executed, then is okay set to force and the next time well executes, then it's gonna see that it's okay, it's false. So it's going to exit the loop. By the way, when you have your testing condition inside the, well it doesn't have to be a variable, it can be something more sophisticated like a test for example. For example is okay equal true or is okay equal false. And you can also have some other condition exactly like in eve. So you can use the double M percent for a N or the double pipe for a oil condition. Also exclamation point if you wanna negate a bull and value. 

And finally the last thing that is interesting in a well statement is to break out of it. So the way I show you before, like what you, we change the value of a variable and you break out of the well statement is one way, but you can also use the break statement or another thing you can do. If you know that you don't need to run the computation after because saw something happened, then instead of the break you can use the continue statement. And in this case when this happened and all the code that is after in the well loop is skipped and we go for the next iteration of the wild loop. By the way, the break and continue keyword I just mentioned can also be used in a follow loop. That's it for this video. In the next video I'm gonna show you how we can declare and manipulate arrays in solidity. 

