[lesson30.mp4](file:///D:%5CDevelopment%5CEat%20The%20Blocks%20-%20BlockChain%20Course%5CEatTheBlocks%20-%206%20Figures%20Blockchain%20Developer%5Clesson30.mp4)
In this video, I'm going to show you how you can declare and manipulate struct in Solidity. Solidity structs are really great to represent structured data in your spot contract. The basic idea is that you define a template with different fields that represent your data. 

And after, you will create several clones of this template with exactly the same field, but they will have different values. So this is a little bit similar to classes in JavaScript, except that with Solidity struct, you can only define fields, but you cannot define any method. So I know that it sounds a little bit abstract, so let's get into it and let's give some specific examples. 
```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0

contract MyContract {

struct User {

	address addr;
	uint score;
	string name;
}

// to create instances of the struct

function foo(string calldata _name) external {
	User memory user1 = User1(msg.sender,0,_name);
	User memory user = User2(msg.sender,0,_name);
	or
	User memory user = User3({name:_name,score:0,addr:msg.sender});

	// read
	user3.addr;
	// update
	user3.score = 20;
	//delete
	delete user1;

	
}


}
```
So we're going to see four things. First, we're going to see how to declare a struct. Then we're going to see how we can do the four basic operations, create, read, update, and delete a struct.

Then we're going to see some more exotic combinations, such as an array of struct and mapping of structs. So let's get started by declaring a struct. So let's declare a struct here. 

Outside of any functions, we use the struct keyword. And after that, we have to put the name of the struct. So by convention, we name this struct with an uppercase. 

So I'm going to create a struct that is called user. Then I open the curly braces and I define the fields of my user struct. So for that, I use the same syntax as we normally use for declaring normal variables. 

So if you don't know how to declare a variable in Solidity, check out my video on Solidity variables in this series. You'll find a link in the description. So let's create the first field for our user. 

And we're going to make this an address field. And then we need to give a name to this field. So we cannot reuse the address keyword because that's reserved for the type.

So we can use an abbreviation like addr like this, and we terminate this by a semicolon. Okay, so we're going to create another field. For example, it can be an integer that stores the score of a user. 

So we define an integer and then the score. Okay, and finally, let's give it a last name, like a string. So string name, semi colon. 

Alright, so we have declared our user struct. But at this stage, this is just a template. It is not stored anyway. 

So we need to create instances of this struct. So let's see how we can do this. So let's create a function first, because we create instances inside the function, we make it external. 

And first, we're going to declare a variable type of type user. So user, and we're going to make it in memory. And then we give it a name. 

So user, but this time with u lowercase. And after that, we reuse the user keyword, and we open parentheses. So this means create a new struct. 

And after that, we need to pass the parameters to this struct so that it can populate the different fields. So the first one is the address. So I'm going to use the address of the center of the transaction. 

Then for the score, let's put zero. And for the name, well, we could have an argument in our function. So string called data underscore name. 

And here in my struct, then I use this argument to create my struct. Okay. And so with this, we have created our user struct. 

So here, let's call this user one. So now, if I create another struct, user two, then user one and user two are totally independent. If I modify user two, it will not have any consequence on user one. 

Okay. So this is the first syntax to create a struct. But there is another syntax that allows you to put the parameters out of order. 

So let's see how this works. So let's create another user, user, user three. So this time, we still use the user keyword. 

But inside, we're going to use curly braces. So for example, we can start with the name. So here, name, colon, and then the value, then a comma, and score. 

And we initialize it at zero. And finally, the address. So address, and here, msg sender. 

Okay. And so, yes, the big advantage of this notation is that you don't have to remember the order of the variable. But the disadvantage is that it's a little bit more verbose. 

So yeah, choose the notation that is the easiest to use for you. Then how can we read a field of our user? So let's say that we want to read the address field of user three. So user three dot ADDR. 

So that's how we would access this field, et cetera, for the other field. So you just have to remember the dot notation. So this is very easy. 

Then how can we update a field? So for that, you reuse the same notations. So for example, user three dot score. And you just assign the new values. 

So for example, make it 20. And finally, how can you delete a struct? Well, use the delete keyword plus the name of the struct, and it will delete it from memory. Okay. 

So this is great. But in general, what we want to do is to store collection of struct in containers. And we have two ways to do this. 

One way is to declare an array of struct. And the other way is by declaring a mapping of struct. So let's first see how we can declare an array of struct. 

So here above, I'm going to declare an array of struct. And let's put it after the definition of the user. So we reference the struct type. 

And then we use the square bracket notation. And then we put name for our array. So users. 

Okay. And by the way, here my U is lowercase. So after in our function, let's add some user to our array. 

So users dot push, because this is an array. So we have access to the push method. And inside, we can either reference a user that we created before, or we could directly instantiate a user. 

So push user. And here you will give all your arguments to your user. Okay. 

So this is one way to have a collection of struct. But we have an all the way with mappings. So below the user array, let's define a mapping. 

And for the key of the mapping, we want to pick something that is unique to each struct. So in this case, the address will be unique. So I'm going to specify that the key is address. 

And it's going to map to a user. And I'm going to call this user list two, for example. Okay. 

And after in my function, I can add some user to this mapping. So user list two. And here I reference a new user by its key. 

So for example, mhd sender. And here I can assign to user two. But I could also create a new user directly. 

So I could do like user and then put in all the well, you get the ID. So struct are really great to represent structured data. And every time you find yourself defining too many variable in your spot contract, that might be a sign that these would be better inside a struct. 

Okay. So that's it for this video.
