In this video I'm going to show you the structure of a Solidity smart contract.  Here I am inside my remix editor and I've created a smart contract called `mycontract.sol` and I'm going to start with what we call the pragma statement.  So I write the `pragma` keyword then the `solidity` keyword and finally a caret and 0.6.0 and a semi column.  So let's unpack this.

 So <font color="#fbbb59">the purpose of this whole line is to make sure that we're using the correct version of Solidity.  So if you write the smart contract with an old version of Solidity and later you try to compile this file with a newer version of Solidity then Solidity is going to complain and save you from making some mistake.</font>  So in this pragma statement we have the pragma and Solidity keyword this never changes and after you have to specify the version of Solidity.
```solidity


pragma solidity ^0.6.0;

contract MycContract {  

}
```
So <font color="#fbbb59">when you use this caret here it means we can compile this file with any version of Solidity starting from 0.6.0 it can be 0.6.1 0.6.2 etc. but here it cannot be 0.7 0.8 because when we change this version number here it means that some feature will not be backward compatible. </font> So we're going to use Solidity 0.6.0 and by the way you will notice that I terminate my statement with a semi column all statements in Solidity need to be terminated by the semi column.

 After we're going to create our smart contract by using the contract keyword then we give the name of our smart contract and finally we open the curly braces so everything that you have inside the curly braces will be part of the code of the smart contract.  In the same file you can define several contracts so if you wanted you could have another contract here my contract two my contract three etc. but if you can it's better to have only one contract per file it's easier to understand what's going on.

 So we're going to stop here and in the next video I'll show you how you can compile your contract.