In this video,  I'm going to tell you about what are the variable types in Solidity.  <font color="#b2a2c7">In Solidity</font>,  contrary to JavaScript,<font color="#b2a2c7">  you have to declare the type of your variables before you are able to use them</font>.  So it's really important to understand variable type in Solidity. 
So we can group this variable type into three categories.
- first category is<font color="#9bbb59"> fixed-size </font> types.  So this type occupies a fixed size in memory.  
- Then the second time is <font color="#9bbb59">variable-size</font> types.  So these types are a little bit more complex and they can hold the data of a variable length.  So if you don't know in advance what's going to be the size of your data,  then that's one of these types that you need to use.  
- And the last one is <font color="#9bbb59">user-defined data</font>.  So if you need a custom representation of data, that's what you need to use. 

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.6.0

constract MyContract {
	//1. fixed-size types
	
	bool isReady; //true / false
	uint a ; // can be only positive integers
	address recipient;
	bytes32 data ; 

	// 2. variable-size types
	string name;
	bytes _data;
	uint[] amounts;
	mapping(uint => string) users; // similar to js object

	// 3. user-defined data
	struct User {
		uint id ;
		string name;
		uint[] friendIds;
	}
	enum Color {
	RED,
	GREEN,
	BLUE
	
	}
}
```

### fixed-size types

- <font color="#ffc000">bool</font>
- <font color="#ffc000">uint</font>
- <font color="#ffc000">address</font>
- <font color="#ffc000">bytes32</font>

So I know that it sounds a little bit abstract. So let's give some specific example.  So in a fixed size type,  one of the most useful types is the <font color="#9bbb59">Boolean type</font>  <font color="#92d050">bool</font>.  So that is exactly like in JavaScript.  For example, you can say  isReady.  Maybe that your smart contract can have different states.  So you can store this in a Boolean variable.  So this can be true or false.
Then another type is<font color="#9bbb59"> uint that stands for unsigned integer.</font> So this type is very, very useful because every time you want to do a financial transfer,  like sending ether or sending an ERT token,  then you are going to use this type.  So this is a little bit similar to the number type in JavaScript,  except that in Solidity,  uint can only <font color="#00b0f0">hold positive numbers and these numbers have to be integer.</font>  So they cannot be floating point numbers.  So you're going to be using this type a lot in your smart contract.  
Then you have the<font color="#9bbb59"> address type </font><font color="#00b0f0">to represent Ethereum addresses.</font>  So this is very important when you want to send some ether or an ERT token,  you need to know what is the recipient address. Or when you want to interact with another smart contract,  you need to know also its address.  So to declare an address,  use the address keyword and then you name your variables.  So for example, it can be the recipient for some financial transfer.
 And the last fixed size type that I'd like to show you is called bytes, <font color="#92d050"> bytes32</font>.  And you can call this data, for example,  and this can hold any arbitrary binary data.  So any series of bytes that represent some data,  then you can use this type.  So I know that this type sounds a little bit intimidating,  but it's actually very <font color="#00b0f0">used to represent strings </font>because in Solidity is not very convenient to manipulate strings.
 So oftentimes people prefer to use bytes 32 if they know in advance that the size of their string will not exceed 32 bytes.  All right. So that's it for fixed size types. 
### variable-size types

- <font color="#ffc000">string</font>
- <font color="#ffc000">bytes</font>
- <font color="#ffc000">arrays</font>
- <font color="#ffc000">mappings</font>
 
 So next,  let's see what are the variable size type.  So the first one is the <font color="#92d050">string.</font>  So you should be familiar with this one.  So for example,  it can be name.  So it can be a string of any length. However, contrary to JavaScript in Solidity,  we don't have a lot of convenience function to manipulate strings.  So as I said just before,  in many cases,  people prefer to represent their string as a byte32.  
 
 Another possibility is also to represent your string using another type that is called <font color="#92d050">bytes.</font>  So the bytes type is a generalization of the bytes32 type that we had before. So we can also call this, for example,  underscore data. So this is also used to represent any kind of binary data,  but contrary to bytes32,  this <font color="#00b0f0">does not have any predefined length</font>. 
 
  Then we have <font color="#92d050">arrays</font> to <font color="#00b0f0">represent a collection of data.</font>  For example, if you want to declare an array of integer,  then you use this notation and then you give the name of your array.  Contrary to JavaScript in Solidity, <font color="#00b0f0">arrays have to be array of the same type</font>.  So you can only have array of uint, for example,  or arrays of bytes 32,  but it's not possible to have arrays that are mixed.  So like the first element is integer,  then the second element is Boolean value,  et cetera,  et cetera.  So it's slightly less flexible than in JavaScript.  
  
  Next,  we have <font color="#92d050">mappings</font>.  So mappings are associative arrays.  They have keys and <font color="#00b0f0">keys mapped to value</font>. So we declare them with the mapping keyword and we define the type of the key. So for example,  this can be an integer and then we define the type of the value that is mapped by each key.  So here it can be a string, for example,  and then we define the name of the mapping.  For example,  it can be users.  So in this case,  that means that you will access user by a number.  So for example, user of, I don't know, of 10.  And this is going to give you some string.   So that's it for the variable size type. 
  
### user-defined type

- <font color="#ffc000">struct</font>
- <font color="#ffc000">enum</font>

 And now let's continue to the user defined data.So the first type that we're going to use for that is <font color="#92d050">struct</font>.  So you first use the struct keyword, then you name your struct.  So in general, you're going to use an uppercase.  For example,  this can be User and then you open the curly braces.
 And inside your struct,  you're going to define a different field.  So for example,  let's say that we want an id.  So you int id,  then another field will be a string and that's going to be a name of the user.  And you can also have some variable size type as a field.  So we can also have an array of integer here.  And this can be, I don't know,  friendIds. And you tune it this by a semi column.  So this is also similar to a JavaScript object,  but the difference with the mapping before is that with the user struct,  you don't have a container.  You have to instantiate a single user,  but after you need to put this user somewhere, for example,  in a container,  like a mapping or like an array.  So in your smart contract,  you're probably going to make use a lot of the struct. 
 
  And the last user defined type is the <font color="#92d050">enum type</font>. So this is good to<font color="#00b0f0"> represent some option</font>,  for example.  So you define it by using the enum keyword.  And after you name your struct,  so it can be, for example,  I don't know,  a color.  And then you open the curly braces.  And then you're going to define a different option.  So for example,  red,  green,blue.  So this enum can be used as a sort of labels.  For example, if somewhere in your smart contract,  you want to represent the color red,  then you can  use this notation color.red.  But if you want to use green color.green,  et cetera,  et cetera.  So for those of you who are familiar with the C language,  then you actually might be familiar with enum and struct.  So that's it for this high level overview of the variable type in solidity.

I'm sure that you still have a lot of questions.  We didn't get into the details of these different variable types.  Don't worry,  because in the course of this series,  we're going to go deep into each type.  And I'm going to show you how you can manipulate each type.  And in particular,  for the most complex type,  like array or mapping or struct,  I know that there are a lot of questions that I haven't covered,  but I will cover everything in future.  This video was just to give you a very high level overview on the different data type and how you can represent your data.

 In the next video,  I'll show you the building variables of solidity.