In this video,  I'm going to teach you how you can declare a function in a Solidity smart contract.  So in the previous video, we had an overview of all the variable types,  and declaring your variable is important,  but once you have data,  then you want to manipulate this data,  and for this,  you need a function. 

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.6.0

contract MyContract {
	uint value;
	function getValue() external view returns(uint) {
	return value;
	
	}
	// function to change the value variable inside the bc
	
	function setValue(unit _value) external {
	value = _value;
	}
	}
```


- external - visibility modifier
- view - means the function is read only. If not present it means that it can modify the data on the bc
- returns(uint) - specifies the return type of the fn. If the fn does not return anything no need of returns()

So first,  we have our smart contract here in Remix,  and we're going to declare a variable. So let's declare an integer, for example, and we're going to call this value,  and then I want a function to be able to read this value.  So I'm going to declare a function with the function keyword exactly like in JavaScript,  and after,  I'm going to name this function,  for example, getValue,  and after,  I give it a set of parentheses. So this set of parentheses can accept arguments.  In this case, we don't have any arguments,  and after that, we're going to use a visibility modifier.  So I'm going to skip the explanation of this at the moment,  we're going to see this later.  And after,  we specify that this is a view function,  because this is going to be read-only,  we're not going to modify the blockchain data,  and after that, we specify the return type of the function with the returns keyword,  so make sure to add the S,  it's not return,  it's returns with the S,  and between parentheses,  we specify the return type, so that's a uint.

 And after,  you open the curly braces,  and here inside the body function,  that's where you will actually write the code of your function.  So in our case,  this is going to be very simple,  just a return statement, once again,  like in JavaScript,  and here we reference the variable that we declare here outside the function,  the value variable,  and we just return it, and we terminate our statement by a semicolon.  Next,

let's create a function to change the value variable inside the blockchain.  So let's create this function setValue,  and it's going to take a single argument of type uint, and so we could call this argument value,  but if we do this, it's going to shadow the value variable at the contract level,  and we will not be able to access it inside the body of our function.  So we want to give our argument another name,

so let's prefix it with an underscore,  and after that,  so we give it the external keyword,  and I'll explain this in another video. And this time,  we will not use the view keyword,  because if we do this,  that means that this function is read-only,  but actually we want this function to actually modify the data on the blockchain.  So if you omit the view keyword,  that means that this function can modify data on the blockchain.  Also, we're not going to specify any return type,

because we're not going to return anything from this function,  and we open the curly braces,  and in order to assign underscore value to value inside the smart contract,  then all we do is value equal underscore value here.  The way we assign variable in Solidity is exactly the same as in JavaScript.  All right, so now we know how we can create the two types of functions in Solidity, the view function,

which are read-only,  and the function without the view keyword,  which can modify data inside the blockchain.  So that's it for the basics of function.  We're going to stop here,  and in the next video,  I'm going to explain what is function visibility.