[lesson24.mp4](file:///D:%5CDevelopment%5CEat%20The%20Blocks%20-%20BlockChain%20Course%5CEatTheBlocks%20-%206%20Figures%20Blockchain%20Developer%5Clesson24.mp4)
Summary

> Function visibility keywords allow you to define who can have access to your function.

- private : Function with `private` keyword can be called only from inside the sc. Cannot be called from outside of the sc. Prefix function name with underscore

- internal : Same as private but can  be called from another sc who inherits from this sc. Prefix with underscore

- external : The fn with external keyword can be called only from outside of the sc. cannot be called from the same sc.

- public : Can be called from outside as well as from the inside of the sc. Most permissive.

> With smart contract in general a good rule of thumb is to give the minimum amount of privilege to any entity

#### What are the function visibility keywords in Solidity?


```solidity

pragma solidity ^0.6.0

contract MyContract {
	uint value;
	function getValue() external view returns(uint) {
	return value;
	
	}
	// function to change the value variable inside the bc
	
	function setValue(unit _value) external {
	value = _value;
	}
	}
```
So this is the smart contract I've been using in previous videos and in the two functions of this smart contract I've been using this `external` keyword. So this is an example of a function visibility keyword.

##### <font color="#B990FF">Function visibility keywords allow you to define who can have access to your function.</font>

So let's start with the most restrictive visibility keywords and that is called `private`. With the `private` keyword you can only call the function from inside the smart contract and in general as a convention we actually prefix the name of the function by an underscore just to show that this is a private function. So this is just a convention Solidity doesn't care about this but it's just a good practice to follow this. So if I redeploy my smart contract then I will not see getValue anymore because this is private and it cannot be called from outside the smart contract. I only see set value. 

The next keyword is called `internal`. So with the internal keyword the function is still limited to be called from within the smart contract but it can also be called from smart contract who inherit from the smart contract. Because in Solidity there is an inheritance mechanism like in languages such as C++ for example and I'm going to explain this later in this tutorial series but just know that internal is slightly less restrictive than private but you still cannot call this function from outside the smart contract.

The next keyword is `external` and that's what we've been using in the previous video. With the external keyword you can only call the function from outside the smart contract . So if I try to call getValue from inside the smart contract inside the setValue function for example here this is not going to work and also for external function we do not prefix them by an underscore.

Last function visibility keyword is called `public` so with `public` you can not only call the function from outside the smart contract but also from inside the smart contract so this is the most permissive function visibility that you can use .

#### How to decide which keyword to use ?

^f88ddf

So the question is how you can choose which function visibility is good for your function. <font color="#00b0f0">With smart contract in general a good rule of thumb is to give the minimum amount of privilege to any entity.</font> So first you try with the `private` keyword to see if it works if it doesn't work then see with `internal` then see if you can use `external` and in last resort you use `public`.A typical beginner mistake is to use `public` for all your functions and this can create some security vulnerability so be really careful with that .

in the next video I'm going to explain what are variable visibility keywords