
## Variable visibility keywords
[lesson25.mp4](file:///D:%5CDevelopment%5CEat%20The%20Blocks%20-%20BlockChain%20Course%5CEatTheBlocks%20-%206%20Figures%20Blockchain%20Developer%5Clesson25.mp4)


<font color="#63e8cd">Summary</font> 

- <font color="#c9b6e9">private</font> : variables with `private` keyword can be read only from within the sc
- <font color="#c9b6e9">internal</font> : can be read only from within as well as from a sc that inherits from this sc.
- <font color="#c9b6e9">public</font> : variable with public keyword can be accessed from outside of the sc from within the sc and from other sc that inherits from this sc.

<font color="#9bbb59">Notes</font>

- By default variables without visibility keyword is considered ` private`
- Use the  <font color="#9bbb59">least privileged principle </font>when choosing the visibility keyword for variables.
- You cannot reuse  the name of a variable as the name of a function.
---


In this video, I'm going to explain a variable visibility in <font color="#c9b6e9">Solidity</font>.
So let's declare an integer variable and we're going to make it a `private` variable. And then we declare its name.
```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.6.0

contract MyContract {

	uint private a;
	function foo() external {
	uint = b = a+1;
	}
}
```
So this whole thing means this is a variable of type integer.
The visibility is `private` and the name is `a`.

<font color="#1f63E8CD90ff">A private variable can only be read from within the same smart contract.</font>
Let's be more specific. So let's say that we have a function that we call foo and we make it external, for example. And in this function, for example, we can create another variable that we call `b` and `b` can be equal to `a + 1`.
So inside the foo function, we can read the value a.
But if I try to read the value a from outside the sc , it's going to fail. By the way, there is a big caveat with this private keyword.
So when I say that I cannot be read from outside the smart contract, it's actually not entirely true. This is only valid in the context of the Ethereum virtual machine, which is the component of Ethereum that runs smart contract.
But what you need to understand is that this variable is stored in the Ethereum blockchain, which is a public blockchain.
So you cannot have anything private in this public blockchain.
And if you use some blockchain, analyze this tool, it's possible to read the value of a private variable in the Ethereum blockchain.
So don't put any secret in these private variables.
Anybody will be able to read them.


Next, there is the `internal` keyword. So instead of private here, you can specify internal. This is exactly the same as for internal keyword for function. That means that this variable can be read from inside the smart contract or other smart contract that inherit from it. But you cannot read it from outside the smart contract once again.

And finally, there is the `public` keyword.
So with the public keyword, as you probably guessed, you can read it not only from within the smart contract,
from smart contract that inherit from it, but also from outside the smart contract. So that is the most permissive kind of access for Solidity Variable.

And it's also possible not to specify anything by default.
Solidity is going to consider this variable as a private variable.
So this is a very secure default.

#### Choosing the visibility keyword for variables

So you're probably wondering how to choose which variable visibility. Well, exactly like for function visibility, you need to use the least privileged principle. So if your smart contract can work with a private variable, then make it private.
Then you try internal and if it still doesn't work, then you make it public.

By the way, I would like to tell you what Solidity does exactly when you use this `public` keyword. So what Solidity does is it actually create a public function that is called with the same name of the variable. So function A here, view returns and here return the same type of the variable and it return A.
And make my function public. And here you see that Solidity is not happy.

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.6.0

contract MyContract {

uint public a ;

// this is what happens internally when we decalre a pulbic variable in a sc

function a() public view returns(uint) {
	return a;
}
	
	
}
```
It tells you identifier already declared, but that's kind of weird because we haven't declared any function called a.
Well, that's because behind who what Solidity does with this public variable is see that it is a public variable.
So it creates automatically this function a. So if you try to create the same function, it's going to collide with this function created by Solidity. <font color="#63e8cd">So you cannot reuse variable name for another function.</font>

And in the next video, I'll show you how you can deploy and interact with your smart contract.
