
[lesson26.mp4](file:///D:%5CDevelopment%5CEat%20The%20Blocks%20-%20BlockChain%20Course%5CEatTheBlocks%20-%206%20Figures%20Blockchain%20Developer%5Clesson26.mp4)

In this video, I'm going to show you how you can deploy and interact with a smart contract in remix. So here I have an example smart contract with an integer variable. So here in the constructor, you set an initial value to this variable, then you have function to get the value of this variable, and finally you have function to change the value of this variable.
```solidity

pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

  

contract MyContract {

    uint data;

    constructor(uint _data) public  {

    data = _data;

    }

  

    function get() external view returns(uint) {

    return data;

    }

  

    function set(uint _data) external {

        data = _data;

        }


}
```

### Setting up ganache

- `npm install ganache --global`
- then type `ganache`
- In remix Deploy window under Environment select Dev-Ganache provider 

The first thing you need to make sure is that your smart contract is compiled. So here in the compile tab, I've already activated the auto compile feature, and you can see here the check mark that means the compilation was successful.
Then the next step is to go in the deploy tab here. Let's start by the top. So here you see this drop down on the environment, and that tells you where you will deploy your smart contract. So JavaScript VM, this is basically a local development blockchain that runs in the browser that's called Ganache, and I've already introduced Ganache in a previous section,but if you forget what it is, this is basically a local blockchain just for development, totally isolated from the real Ethereum blockchain mannet. You can experiment safely in the
sandbox that are absolutely no real life consequences. It's also possible to deploy to the real Ethereum blockchain and public testnet by using injected webs right here, but we're not going to
do this. We're going to stick to JavaScript VM. Then with this local development blockchain, you also have five addresses that are pre-funded with some fake ethos, 100 fake ethos in each of them.
So we're going to deploy the spot contract with the first address, but if you want, you can change
it to other addresses. Then we have the gas limits. So I've already explained what is gas in a
previous section of this course. So if you know what is the maximum amount of gas that transaction
takes, then you can specify this parameter, but in most cases you can ignore it. Then here with
this field, you can send some ether in a transaction. So here you can change the unit, can choose
ether or other units. So we will see the other unit of ether later when I cover transferring ether,
but for now we're going to leave these two fields empty. And here you have the deploy button that
allows you to deploy a spot contract. And here in this field, you can pass some argument for
your constructor. So for example, here I'm going to pass 10 to initialize my data variable to 10.
Then you click on deploy. And here you can see your contract instance that was deployed on
the blockchain. So if you click on deploy again, then it's cut off on my screen, but you will see
other gray area appearing. So these are the different instances of your contract. So that means
that these different instances are totally independent. Any change you do to this smart contract
will not be reflected in other deployed instance. And you can do any of the deploy spot contract
with this icon here. So let's do this. And after you can expand this, and you will see different
button that correspond to the different function of your spot contract. And this will allow you to
interact with your smart contract. So for example, if you click on get, here you will see the result.
So our variable data is equal to 10. That makes sense because this is what we use in the deployment.
And if you want to change the value of this variable, then we're going to use this field. Here's
for example, 20. And we click here on the set button. And you can send a transaction to the
blockchain. So this is cut off on my screen. But at the bottom of your remix editor in the remix
console, you should see some information about the transaction that was just sent. And if there is
an error in your transaction, then you will see an error message in this remix console. And after
if we click on the get button, then we can see the updated value of the data variable. It's important
to understand that there is a big difference between the get and the set function. So the set
function sends a transaction to the blockchain. It modified the data of the blockchain and you
will have to pay a transaction fee of gas. However, for the get function, you just read data from
the blockchain and it doesn't cost you any gas. So that's why the two buttons of set and get are
of different color. One thing that often trip beginners is that after you change the code of your
smart contract, you need to redeploy it if you want to interact with the new version. So let's
assume that I make some change in my smart contract and I try to interact with new version by using
here the set and get button. It's not going to work because this is connected to the old version
of the smart contract. So what I need to do in this case is to delete the old instance of the
smart contract and to deploy my smart contract again. And here I will have an up to date contract
instance. So that's it for smart contract deployment and interaction and in the next video,
I'll teach you the control structure in solidity, so if for loop, well, etc.
