
#### Problem - Given a number 'n', find the first 'n' elements of the Fibonacci sequence.


> In mathematics , the Fibonacci sequence is a sequence in which each number is the sum of the tow preceding ones. The first two numbers in the sequence are 0 and 1

>Examples
>fibonacci(2) = [0,1]
>fibonnacci(4) = [0,1,1,2]


```js

function fibonacci(n) {
const fib = [0,1];
for(let i = 2; i<n; i++){
	fib[i] = fib[i-1] + fib[i-2]
	}
	return fib
}
console.log(fibonacci(8))
```

You can calculate the big O using either by counting the number of statements executed or by using the cheat sheet 

Our function contains one for loop. The big O of for loop is O(n).So the big O is O(n) for the above problem.

### Find the factorial of a given number n

A factorial is the product of all the numbers from the number to 1

```js
function factorial(n){  
  let result = 1;
  for(i=2;i<=n;i++){    
    result = result * i;
  }  
  return console.log(result)
}

factorial(5); // 120
factorial(0); // 1
factorial(1); //1
```

The time complexity is linear because of the for loop.

> Find the practical applications of factorial. Most used in probability. [example link click here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-is-a-factorial/)


### Given a natural number n determine if the number is prime or not.
[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cbHMQxOuIUw&list=PLC3y8-rFHvwjPxNAKvZpdnsr41E0fCMMP&index=9)


A prime number is a natural number greater than 1 that is  not a product of two smaller natural numbers.

```js

function isPrime(n){
  
  if(n<2){
    return false;
  }
  for(let i =2;i<n;i++){
	if(n % i===0){
    return false;
  }  
  }
  
  return true;
}

console.log(isPrime(13));// true
```

Time complexity is linear because of the for loop.
#### Optimized primality test
Integers larger than the square root do not need to be checked because, whenever n=ab one of the two factors a and b is less than or equal to the square root of n.

n = 24, a =4 and b=6
The square root of 24 is 4.89
4 is less than 4.89
a is less than the square root of n

```js
function isPrime(n){
  
  if(n<2){
    return false;
  }
  for(let i =2;i<Math.sqrt(n);i++){
	if(n % i===0){
    return false;
  }  
  }  
  return true;
}
console.log(isPrime(13));
```

Here the time complexity is O(sqrt(n))

In n = 100 , then in the for loop we check till n=10. If n=10000
we check till n = 100. Thus the time complexity becomes efficient because as the input decreases the number of statement executes is becoming less.

## Power of Two

##### Give a positive integer n , determine if the number is a power of 2 or not . 

An integer is a power of two if there exists and integer x such that n=2^x

