In this video, I will introduce GAZ. When you send a transaction to the Ethereum blockchain, you need to pay for a transaction fees. That's because we want to prevent spamming and we also want to reward miners for their efforts. So who pays what to who? First, who pays? The sender of a transaction. When I say sender, I actually mean the address that sign a transaction. It doesn't matter who delivers a transaction to the network.

It could be the signer of the transaction or anybody else. Who receives this transaction fee? You can't know this in advance, but it will be the miner that successfully mines the block in which your transaction is included. And last question, how much you will pay? For that, we need to understand GAZ. When you run a smart contract, you run some elementary operations on the Ethereum virtual machine what I call before the EVM. Each of these elementary operations is more or less computationally intensive and we quantify this with gas. Maybe that's an addition, it will be 10,000 gas, saving some data will be 20,000 gas etc. So we add the gas cost of all these operations and at the end we have a

total gas cost. Then we need to convert this gas cost into ether because we're gonna pay the transaction fees in ether not in gas. Gas is just an abstract unit to measure transaction fee but you can actually pay with gas. To do this conversion from gas to ether we need to know how much ether you are willing to pay for each unit of gas. That's what we call the gas price. And it's actually up to you to decide this. If you put a gas price too low, miners will not be interested and will ignore your transaction and it will never be mined.

If you put a normal gas price, your transaction will most likely be mined in 50 seconds or slightly more. And if you are really in a hurry, you can put a higher gas price and your transaction will be mined faster. You can check out what's the average gas price used on a network on a website called ETH Gas Station. So let's go back to the gas fields of a transaction. So you have gas and gas price. For gas price, I've already explained. For gas, that's the maximum gas cost that you are willing to pay for this transaction.

It's actually possible to simulate a transaction and have an estimate for this gas parameter and usually wallets do this for you. So most of the time you don't have to deal with this. That's pretty much all you need to know for now. If you want to dig deeper on this topic, I have a longer explanation on my YouTube channel. I put the link above the video. I'll stop here and in the next video, I'll explain what are the different Ethereum networks.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
