# Blockchain
## Blockchain 
A block chain is a special kind of database and its main function is to store data.
A block chain is a series of blocks of data like block1, block2, ....etc.
These blocks are linked to each other with cryptography.
Block3 references block2 block2 references block 1.
## Parts of a  block 

Each block has 2 parts
#### Metadata

In the metadata part of the block we can find information such as
- the time stamp at which the block was created ,
- the reference to the previous block and
- a cryptographic signature of all the transactions.
#### Transactions
Transaction describes **<u>how the data changes</u>**. For example for bitcoin a transaction describes how a bitcoin is transferred from one account to another one.
A block chain transaction <u>can describe a change of any kind of data</u> , not only financial(bit coin) transactions.



## Block chain network and decentralized nature of the block chain. 

The block chain does not run on a single computer but runs on a network of computers that are connected to each other. Each computer is called a node and together they form a blockchain network. Anybody can run a bc (block chain) node and be a part of the blockchain network. That's why we say a bc runs on a public network. There are already many databases that run on several nodes we call these distributed databases, however none of them run on a public network, instead they run on a private network.

Now if any body can run a node on a bc network, then how can bc network be secure?

For this there is the mining process. If we want to add data to the block chain we need to add a new block to the block chain with <u>transactions that describe all the changes to the data that you want to bring to the bc.</u> If you want to do this you need to be engaged in a process called **mining**.Any node of a block chain network can be a miner. When you are a miner you compete with other miners in the network to solve a mathematical equation. The first miner that solves the mathematical equation has the right to add the next block to the bc. The mining process is described formally in an algorithm called **Proof-Of-Work(POW)**.The advantage of POW is that it is very hard to hack and it doesn't rely on any centralized counterparty.

## Pros and Cons of bc to traditional db 

1. Immutability:- With block chain we can add data to a blockchain only with a new block , but never modify the data that is already in the block chain. The block that are already in the chain cannot be modified. This is very different from traditional db.
2. It is decentralized and censorship resistant ie a single actor cannot control the network.
3. It is very secure because of the POW algorithm 

#### Cons

1. Very slow compared to traditional db. because bc network has to synchronize data across the whole network which is distributed globally.

2. Limited scalability :- Because we have to synchronize data across the whole network , the capacity for the network to absorb more  incoming transaction is much much more limited than a centralized db. This problem is so prominent that actually the whole bc industry is focused on solving it. We have many initiatives in many bc technology to make the bc more scalable such as **Ethereum 2.0**.
3. Expensive because we have to pay miner for their service of adding data to a bc.For this reason we avoid to put too much data on the bc.
4.  No privacy because we are on a public network. Any data we put on on the bc can be seen by anybody.

