
## What is a wallet and how it manages addresses ?

(0:00) In this video, I will explain what is a wallet. A wallet is a software that manages addresses. (0:06) This is different from the blockchain software.

It's installed and controlled by users. (0:12) There are different kinds of wallets. You can have desktop applications, (0:16) mobile applications, browser extensions, and physical wallets.(0:20) The most popular wallets used for Ethereum are MetaMask, a browser extension, (0:25) and NanoLedger, a physical wallet. We'll see MetaMask more in detail later in this course. (0:31) The first function of a wallet is to generate addresses.

Like I explained in a previous video, (0:36) wallets will first randomly generate a private key, then compute a public key, (0:41) and finally derive an Ethereum address. For most people, one address is not enough. (0:47) Maybe that you will want to use one Ethereum address for saving your Ether, (0:52) in order for your current operation, etc.(0:55) Fortunately, a wallet can generate multiple Ethereum addresses. (1:00) You might think that a wallet will generate several private keys for that. (1:03) Actually, no.

A single private key is enough to generate multiple Ethereum addresses. (1:08) Wallets that can do this are called<u> Hierarchical Deterministic Wallet </u>or HDWallet. (1:14) Pretty much all wallets are like this.(1:16) If you are interested in how this process works, (1:18) you can check out the link to BIP32 and BIP39 above this video. (1:24) But the point to remember is that, with a single private key, you can generate (1:29) multiple Ethereum addresses. And from these Ethereum addresses, (1:33) you cannot go back to the private key.

And also, if you take two Ethereum addresses, (1:38) it's impossible to know that they come from the same private key. (1:42) So that is good for your privacy. (1:44) The creation of Ethereum addresses is decentralized.(1:48) Anybody is free to create as many addresses as they want. (1:52) But how can we guarantee that two different people won't generate the same address? (1:57) It's actually technically possible. (1:59) If two different wallets generate the same private keys, (2:02) then the same Ethereum addresses would also be generated (2:05) and one person would be able to steal the Ether of another person.(2:10) This is called an address collision. (2:11) However, the likelihood that this happens is so low that you don't really have to worry about this. (2:17) If someone steals your private key, he or she can steal all your Ether.(2:21) Physical wallets like Nano Ledger are safer to use in that regard, (2:26) but they are less convenient to use. (2:27) That's why usually people put most of their crypto savings in a physical wallet like Nano Ledger (2:34) and they also keep a small buffer in a software wallet like Metamask for current operations. (2:39) If you lose access to your wallet or it breaks, (2:42) you also lose access to your private key and you'll be unable to spend your Ether.(2:47) So that's why it's recommended to do a backup of your private key. (2:50) And the safest way to do this is to copy your private key on a piece of paper. (2:55) So copying the private key directly won't be very convenient (2:57) because this is a very long number.(2:59) So instead, wallets give you what we call a mnemonic phrase. (3:03) A mnemonic phrase represents your private key with 12 words. (3:06) It's much more user-friendly to manipulate this.(3:08) Besides creating addresses, (3:10) the other function of wallets is to sign transactions using your private keys. (3:15) That's what allows you to spend your Ether. (3:17) And we will see this in the next video.