
 A smart contract is a small program that runs on the Ethereum blockchain. Smart contracts have some properties that make them very different from other programs.
 
### Pros

 
 - Their code is immutable. Once you deploy a smart contract to the blockchain, it's impossible to update. So you will have a guarantee that the code will run exactly as it was deployed.
 - Smart contracts are censorship resistant.   deploy them, no government or organization can stop them. Not even the creator of the smart contract. Smart contracts don't require to run on any server. You can just deploy them to the blockchain and forget about them. 
 - Smart contracts are very safe. If they have no bug in their code, it's almost impossible to hack them. Smart contracts can natively transfer Ether, the cryptocurrency of Ethereum. In other applications, if you want to manipulate money, you have to do complex integration with payment processors like PayPal and Stripe, and that's not ideal. With Ethereum, it's very simple.


### Cons

- First, it's expensive to run smart contracts. You need to pay with something called gas and we will see this in the next video. 
- Smart contracts are very slow. When you want to interact with a smart contract, you need to send a transaction and wait for this transaction to be picked up by a miner and it takes on average 15 seconds. 
- Smart contracts have very limited capabilities compared to other programs for example you can't store too much data in them and you can't run any computation that is too complicated.
- Also you can't schedule a smart contract to run in the future like you would do with a cron job.
- And finally with a smart contract you cannot call any API that is outside the blockchain. 

### How smart contracts work ?

 Smart contract has an Ethereum address, some code and some data and they run on the blockchain. First, you need to write the code of your smart contract and you can use a programming language like Solidity for that. In Solidity, you define variables and functions like you would do with other programming languages. Then you need to compile this code into what we call an EVM bytecode. The EVM doesn't know how to run Solidity, it only knows how to run some elementary instructions. The EVM bytecode is a series of these

0:02:34
elementary instructions. So once you have compiled your smart contract and you have this EVM bytecode, you need to create your smart contract on the blockchain. For that you create a transaction with the EVM bytecode and you send it to the blockchain. The miner will pick up the transaction and a spot contract will be created. After that, you can interact with your spot contract. To do that, you will create other transactions where you specify which functions of the spot contract you want to call. Maybe it has some function, it will send some ether to other addresses, perform some computations. A function can even call a function on another smart contract, that means that a smart contract can execute some other smart


contract in the blockchain and that's very very powerful. So I'm sure that at this point you still have a ton of questions about how smart contracts work and later in this course we will see this in more detail when I will teach you how to code smart contracts with solidity. But for now we will stick with this high level explanation. In this video I mentioned something called GAS, that's something important to understand and that's what we'll see in the next video.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
