
You already know what is a smart contract.  Smart contracts are cool,  but they are not very user-friendly.  If you only have a smart contract,  the only way to interact with it would be to use the command line or to write a small program that sends some requests to the Ethereum API.  And clearly,  we can't really expect a user to do this.  Instead,  we need to build a nice user interface so that end-users can easily interact with our smart contract. <u>**What we call a decentralized application is the <u></u>combination of this user interface plus the smart contract.</u>**

 So let's see a real-life example to have a feel of how it looks like.  This is a decentralized application of Uniswap.  Uniswap is a project on Ethereum that allows to buy or sell Ethereum tokens in a decentralized way by using a smart contract. I will explain later in this course what is a token,  but for now I will just say that a token is a kind of financial asset that lives on the blockchain,

like a virtual coin.  So here is the user interface of Uniswap.  That's a web application that I accessed by loading a URL in my web browser.  The web application is built with HTML,  CSS,  and JavaScript.  Nothing revolutionary here. I'm going to interact with it by buying some tokens.  So I click here and boom!  What do I see?  A confirmation pop-up.

 So this is my wallet that controls my private keys.  This is not part of Uniswap.  Instead,  this is a browser extension called MetaMask. I will talk about MetaMask later in this course,  but we can already see that using a DApp requires to have an Ethereum wallet,  which is an external software not provided by the DApp.  I confirm my action.  So behind the hood,  the wallet is going to sign a transaction,

send it to the Ethereum network,  and the UI of Uniswap is updated to show me what happened in the smart contract. So as you can see,  a decentralized application really feels like a web application,  but it's a bit different because you have this integration with this wallet thing,  and it's also a bit slower because you have to wait for the confirmation of the transaction. And I will explain how this works more in details later in this section in the video about the architecture of DABs,

so I show you one famous DAB,  Uniswap.  But what about the other decentralized applications?  What people are building on Ethereum?  That's what I will tell you in the next video.

