
In this video,  I will give you an idea of what kind of decentralized applications people are building on Ethereum. 

DApps can be put in three categories.
- <font color="#00b0f0">DeFi  </font>
- <font color="#00b0f0">Games</font> 
- <font color="#00b0f0">Gambling</font>

Let's start with DeFi.  DeFi means decentralized finance.  That's basically finance reinvented on the blockchain.  That's by far the most active category of DApp on Ethereum.  This website shows you how much money was invested in DeFi. You can see that before the whole coronavirus crisis, it was growing pretty fast.  At the peak,  up to 1 billion dollars were invested.  And once the coronavirus crisis passes,  I have no doubt we'll see another big increase.  So you can see the different categories of DeFi projects. 

##### Examples of DeFi Projects

- <font color="#92d050">DAI</font>   This is a stable coin.  That's basically a token.<font color="#00b0f0"> </font>**<font color="#00b0f0">DAI tokens are most simply set as financial assets on the blockchain that always keep the same value</font>.** One DAI token equals one dollar.  That's very useful for payments and trading. 

-  <font color="#92d050">Uniswap</font>  allows to <font color="#00b0f0">buy or sell Ethereum tokens</font> in a decentralized way by using a smart contract. 

- <font color="#92d050">Compound</font>,  a project that allows you to<font color="#00b0f0"> borrow or lend tokens</font> in a decentralized way on the blockchain. 

And there are many others. The industry <font color="#00b0f0">is</font> very dynamic and we have new projects every week.  The point I'm trying to make is that if you are trying to find some ideas for what to build on top of Ethereum look no further than DeFi.

<font color="#e5b9b7">A great way to get started in DeFi is to build a project on top of existing projects.  So you can use these DeFi projects like Lego blocks and combine them. For example,  you can create an exchange that borrows money from Compound and invests it with Uniswap.</font>

In the Capstone project we will do at the end of this course,  we will do a big DeFi project that integrates with the DAI stable coin.  The two other categories of DAB I mentioned before.

Gambling and games,  are not as active as DeFi.  But still there is a notable game that is called CryptoKitties and basically that allows you to buy and breed virtual kitties on the blockchain. Actually one of these virtual kitties sold for more than $100,000.  That's insane.  If you want to know more about DeFi and the general market for DABs on Ethereum,  I put a couple of links above the video.  That's it for this video and in the next video I'll show you what is the architecture of decentralized application.

