## Development process of a decentralized application.

At the beginning,  you need to <font color="#92d050">model your data.  You need to decide what will be on the blockchain and what will be outside the blockchain</font>.  In general,  we avoid to put too many data on the blockchain because that's expensive.  So you'll have only the essential data on your smart contract and other data on a centralized server.  However,  for our course,  we will <font color="#92d050">keep</font> things simple and we'll put everything in the smart contract. 

Then, <font color="#92d050">once you have your data model,  you can start to code your smart contract.</font>  For that,  you will use tools like <font color="#f79646">Remix and Solidity</font>.  When you deploy a smart contract to the blockchain,  it's impossible to change its code after it's been deployed.  So that's very,  very important that you make sure that there is no bug in your spot contract before you deploy it.  And the best way to do this is to test your smart contract. 
So the next step after you finish to code your smart contract is to <font color="#f79646"><font color="#92d050">thoroughly test all the functions of your smart contract. And for that,  you can use a framework like </font></font><font color="#f79646">Truffle.</font>  This will probably lead you to make some small changes in your spot contract because you will fix a couple of bugs. 
Next, after you finish to test your smart contract,  the next step is to<font color="#92d050"> build the frontend. </font> End users cannot use directly the smart contract,  but they need a nice user-friendly user interface. So using<font color="#f79646"> HTML,  CSS and JavaScript</font>,  you will build this frontend that will integrate with the smart contract.

 You probably need to use a JavaScript library called<font color="#f79646"> Web3 and you also need to interface with an Ethereum wallet like MetaMask.</font>  And after you finish the frontend,  it's time to<font color="#92d050"> deploy your spot contract. So the first step is to deploy it to a public testnet like Kovan or Robston and make sure that everything works fine on the public testnet. </font>
 
And after that, the final step is to<font color="#92d050"> deploy your decentralized application on Mennet,  the real network of Ethereum.</font>

 And once you've done that,  congratulations,  your decentralized application is now in production.  In this video,  I mentioned a couple of tools and framework and in the next section,  I will explain you these in detail. We'll stop here and I'll see you in the next section about blockchain development tools.