 1. Introduction 
 2. Blockchain 
 3. Cryptocurrencies & Bitcoin 
 4. Ethereum 
 5. Cryptographic hashes 
 6. Ethereum addresses
 7. Wallets
 8. Transactions 
 9. Smart contracts
 10. Gas 
---
 1. Introduction
 2. What is a decentralized application? Real-Life Dapp Demo 
 3. DeFi and popular Decentralized Application on Ethereum 
 4. Architecture of decentralized application 
 5. Development process of a Decentralized Application
---
 1. Introduction 
 2. Remix 
 1. Introduction
 3. Structure of a smart contract
 4. Variable types
 5. Built-in variables 
 6. Constructor 
 7. Declaring functions
 8. Function visibility 
 9. Variable visibility 
 10. Deploying & interacting with a smart contract in Remix
 11. Control structures: if, while, etc... 
 12. Arrays 
 13. Mappings 
 14. Structs 
 15. Events 
 16. Interacting between smart contracts 
 17. Transferring Ether
 18. Dealing with errors (require, throw...)
 19. Custom function modifiers 
 20. Inheritance 
---
 1. Introduction
 2. Add approvers 
 3. Get list of approvers 
 4. Create transfers
 5. Get list of transfers 
 6. Approve transfers 
 7. Receive Ether 
 8. Access control 
---
 1. Introduction 
 2. Create the Truffle project
 3. Deploy the smart contract in our test 
 4. Your first Solidity test 
 5. Test createTransfer() (1/2, happy path) 
 6. Test createTransfer() (2/2, unhappy path) 
 7. Test approveTransfer() (1/3, happy path) 
 8. Test approveTransfer() (2/3, happy path) 
 9. Test approveTransfer() (3/3, unhappy path)
---
 1. Introduction 
 2. Let's break down the development process for Dapp frontends 
 3. Add a migration file 
 4. Deploy smart contract to Blockchain with Truffle 
 5. Understanding contract artifacts & ABIs 
 6. Setup the React frontend in our Truffle project 
 7. Start the frontend server and see the Dapp in your browser 
 8. Connect the frontend to the smart contract with Web3 
 9. Integrate Web3 to our React application 
 10. Read smart contract data from the frontend with Web3 
 11. Modify smart contract data from the frontend (send transaction) with Web3 
 12. Show a list of transfers 
 13. Approve transfers
 14. Integrate Web3 to Metamask 
 15. Use Ganache addresses in Metamask 
 16. Try out the Dapp in your browser!
---
 1. Introduction 
 2. Creating Ethereum addresses 
 3. Getting some fake Ether with a Faucet 
 4. Create a project in Infura
 5. Configure Truffle to use Infura with hdwallet-provider 
 6. Safe management of private keys in truffle-config 
 7. Deploy smart contract to Kovan 
 8. Deploying the frontend via Netlify and connect it to smart contract 
 1. Introduction 
 3. ERC20 tokens 
 4. Create token registry 
 5. Create wallet 
 6. Integration with the Dai stablecoin 
 7. ERC20 token mocks 
 8. Create limit orders 
 9. Create market orders 
 10. Prevent integer overflow bug
---
 1. Introduction 
 2. Setup the Truffle project
 3. Deploy mock ERC20 tokens 
 4. Deploy The Dex smart contract
 5. Allocate initial token balances 
 6. Test deposit() 
 7. Test withdraw() 
 8. Test createLimitOrder() (1/3 - Happy path) 
 9. Test createLimitOrder() (2/3 - Happy path) 
 10. Test createLimitOrder() (3/3 - Unhappy path) 
 11. Test createMarketOrder() (1/2 - Happy path) 
 12. Test createMarketOrder() (2/2 - Unhappy path) 
---
 1. Introduction 
 2. Setup the Truffle project 
 3. Create the migration file 
 4. Seed token balances 
 5. Seed orders 
 6. Connect frontend to smart contracts with Web3
 7. Loading component 
 8. Dropdown component 
 9. Header component
 10. Integrate Header into App component 
 11. Wallet component 
 12. Integrate Wallet into App component
 13. New order component 
 14. Integrate New Order into App 
 15. All orders component 
 16. Integrate All orders into App 
 17. My orders component 
 18. Integrate My orders into App
 19. All trades component - table 
 20. All trades component - chart 
 21. Integrate All trades into App 
 22. Try it out in your browser! 
---
 1. Introduction 
 2. The 3 steps to find your first Blockchain job (Aim, Load, Fire) 
 3. Aim: Position yourself on the job market 
 4. Load: Build a ROCKSTAR Blockchain CV 
 5. Load: Create a job magnet LinkedIn profile 
 7. Fire: The best places to find (well-paid) Blockchain jobs 
 8. Fire: Prepare for the technical interview - Easy questions 
 9. Fire: Prepare for the technical interview - Intermediate questions 
 10. Fire: Prepare for the technical interview - Difficult questions 