In this video,  I will introduce Remix,  an online IDE for developing Ethereum smart contracts.  With Remix,  it's very easy and fast to start developing smart contracts.  So let's see how it works.  First,  you need to install Remix.  You go to this URL(remix.ethereum.org) and that's it.  Installation finished.  I'm kidding.  This is a web application,  so there is nothing to install.  Super convenient.  You first click on the Solidity button and it's going to set up your editor to use the Solidity programming language for your smart contract.

 I will introduce Solidity in the next section,  but for now, just be aware that it's the most popular programming language for Ethereum smart contracts.  In Remix,  there are three sections.  Here you have the menu,  here you have a box that depends on the menu selected, and here you have the code editor.  We are going to spend most of our time in the code editor.  This menu is the plugin manager.

 You can activate or deactivate different modules and you will see the menu appearing here.  When you click on the Solidity button,  it already activates the necessary module for a basic smart contract developer.  But if you are curious,  you can explore this part and activate all the modules,  but we won't need anything too fancy for our course. Let's go to the file explorer menu.  You can create,  edit,  and delete files here.  Here you have the Solidity compiler menu.

 You can choose which version of Solidity you want to use.  You can compile your smart contract here and you can also activate the auto compile feature.  That's very convenient because if you make any mistake in your smart contract,  you will have a feedback in real time. Let me show you how this works.  Let's go back to the file explorer.  We're going to quickly create an example smart contract.  I'm going to make a mistake on purpose.

Here I use a variable type that does not exist.  I can see the error message.  The last thing I want to show you is the deploy menu.  This allows you to deploy your smart contract to the Ethereum blockchain.  Remix runs a local Ethereum blockchain in your browser.  This is not connected to mainnet,  the real network of Ethereum.  This local Ethereum network is a sandbox that you can use to develop your smart contract.  Remix also creates a couple of addresses prefunded with some fake ether.

 You can spend all these fake ether and make all the mistakes you want.  It doesn't matter at all.  You just have to reload Remix to Of course,  later when we develop our first smart contract,  we will see Remix in more detail.  We'll stop here and in the next lecture,  we'll see Node.js and NPM.